---
title: Media Capture and Streams API (Media Stream)
slug: Web/API/Media_Capture_and_Streams_API
---

{{DefaultAPISidebar("Media Capture and Streams")}}

該**媒體捕獲和流**API，通常被稱為**媒體流 API**或者乾脆**MediaStream API**，是關係到一個 API[的 WebRTC](/zh-TW/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API)提供流式音頻和視頻數據的支持。它提供了用於處理流及其組成軌道的接口和方法，與數據格式關聯的約束，異步使用數據時的成功和錯誤回調以及在此過程中觸發的事件。

## 概念和用法

該 API 基於{{domxref("MediaStream")}}對象的操作，該對象代表與音頻或視頻相關的數據流。請參閱「[獲取視頻](/zh-TW/docs/WebRTC/taking_webcam_photos#Get_the_video)」中的示例。

A `MediaStream` consists of zero or more {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack")}} objects, representing various audio or video **tracks**. Each `MediaStreamTrack` may have one or more **channels**. The channel represents the smallest unit of a media stream, such as an audio signal associated with a given speaker, like _left_ or _right_ in a stereo audio track.

`MediaStream` objects have a single **input** and a single **output**. A `MediaStream` object generated by {{domxref("MediaDevices.getUserMedia", "getUserMedia()")}} is called _local_, and has as its source input one of the user's cameras or microphones. A non-local `MediaStream` may be representing to a media element, like {{HTMLElement("video")}} or {{HTMLElement("audio")}}, a stream originating over the network, and obtained via the WebRTC {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection")}} API, or a stream created using the [Web Audio API](/zh-TW/docs/Web/API/Web_Audio_API) {{domxref("MediaStreamAudioSourceNode")}}.

The output of the `MediaStream` object is linked to a **consumer**. It can be a media elements, like {{HTMLElement("audio")}} or {{HTMLElement("video")}}, the WebRTC {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection")}} API or a [Web Audio API](/zh-TW/docs/Web/API/Web_Audio_API) {{domxref("MediaStreamAudioSourceNode")}}.

## Interfaces

In these reference articles, you'll find the fundamental information you'll need to know about each of the interfaces that make up the Media Capture and Streams API.

- {{domxref("BlobEvent")}}
- {{domxref("CanvasCaptureMediaStreamTrack")}}
- {{domxref("InputDeviceInfo")}}
- {{domxref("MediaDeviceKind")}}
- {{domxref("MediaDeviceInfo")}}
- {{domxref("MediaDevices")}}
- {{domxref("MediaStream")}}
- {{domxref("MediaStreamConstraints")}}
- {{domxref("MediaStreamEvent")}}
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack")}}
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrackEvent")}}
- {{domxref("MediaTrackCapabilities")}}
- {{domxref("MediaTrackConstraints")}}
- {{domxref("MediaTrackSettings")}}
- {{domxref("MediaTrackSupportedConstraints")}}
- {{domxref("NavigatorUserMedia")}}
- {{domxref("NavigatorUserMediaError")}}
- {{domxref("OverconstrainedError")}}
- {{domxref("URL")}}

Early versions of the Media Capture and Streams API specification included separate `AudioStreamTrack` and `VideoStreamTrack` interfaces—each based upon {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack")}}—which represented streams of those types. These no longer exist, and you should update any existing code to instead use `MediaStreamTrack` directly.

## Events

- {{domxref("MediaStream/addtrack_event", "addtrack")}}
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack/ended_event", "ended")}}
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack/mute_event", "mute")}}
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.overconstrained_event", "overconstrained")}}
- {{domxref("MediaStream/removetrack_event", "removetrack")}}
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack/unmute_event", "unmute")}}

## Guides and tutorials

The articles below provide additional guidance and how-to information that will help you learn to use the API, and how to perform specific tasks that you may wish to handle.

{{LandingPageListSubpages}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## 也可以看看

- [WebRTC](/zh-TW/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API) -API 簡介頁
- {{domxref("mediaDevices.getUserMedia()")}}
- [使用 WebRTC 拍攝靜態照片](/zh-TW/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API/Taking_still_photos)：有關使用`getUserMedia()`。
