---
title: MediaStreamTrack
slug: Web/API/MediaStreamTrack
---

{{APIRef("Media Capture and Streams")}}

## Resumo

A interface **`MediaStream`** **r**epresenta uma stream de conteúdo de mídia. Uma stream consiste em várias _tracks_, como faixas de áudio e vídeo.

## Properties

- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.enabled")}}
  - : Is a Boolean value with a value of `true` if the track is enabled, that is allowed to render the media source stream; or `false` if it is disabled, that is not rendering the media source stream but silence and blackness. If the track has been disconnected, this value can be changed but has no more effect.
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.id")}} {{readonlyInline}}
  - : Returns a {{domxref("DOMString")}} containing a unique identifier (GUID) for the track; it is generated by the browser.
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.kind")}} {{readonlyInline}}
  - : Returns a {{domxref("DOMString")}} set to `"audio"` if the track is an audio track and to `"video"`, if it is a video track. It doesn't change if the track is deassociated from its source.
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.label")}} {{readonlyInline}}
  - : Returns a {{domxref("DOMString")}} containing a user agent-assigned label that identifies the track source, as in `"internal microphone"`. The string may be left empty and is empty as long as no source has been connected. When the track is deassociated from its source, the label is not changed.
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.muted")}} {{readonlyInline}}
  - : Returns a Boolean value with a value of `true` if the track is muted, `false` otherwise.
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.readonly")}} {{readonlyInline}}
  - : Returns a Boolean value with a value of `true` if the track is readonly (such a video file source or a camera that settings can't be modified), `false` otherwise.
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.readyState")}} {{readonlyInline}}

  - : Returns an enumerated value giving the status of the track.It takes one of the following values:

    - `"live"` which indicates that an input is connected and does its best-effort in providing real-time data. In that case, the output of data can be switched on or off using the `MediaStreamTrack.enabled` attribute.
    - `"ended"` which indicates that the input is not giving any more data and will never provide new data.

- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.remote")}} {{readonlyInline}}
  - : Returns a boolean value with a value of `true` if the track is sourced by a {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection")}}, `false` otherwise.

### Event handlers

- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.onstarted")}}
  - : Is a {{event("Event_handlers", "event handler")}} containing the action to perform when an {{event("started")}} event is fired on the object, that is when a new {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack")}} object is added.
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.onmute")}}
  - : Is a {{event("Event_handlers", "event handler")}} containing the action to perform when an {{event("mute")}} event is fired on the object, that is when the streaming is terminating.
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.onunmute")}}
  - : Is a {{event("Event_handlers", "event handler")}} containing the action to perform when an {{event("unmute")}} event is fired on the object, that is when a {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack")}} object is removed from it.
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.onoverconstrained")}}
  - : Is a {{event("Event_handlers", "event handler")}} containing the action to perform when an {{event("overconstrained")}} event is fired on the object, that is when a {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack")}} object is removed from it.
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.oneended")}}
  - : Is a {{event("Event_handlers", "event handler")}} containing the action to perform when an {{event("ended_(MediaStream)", "ended")}} event is fired on the object, that is when a {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack")}} object is removed from it.

## Methods

- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.getConstraints()")}}
  - : …
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.applyConstraints()")}}
  - : …
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.getSettings()")}}
  - : …
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.getCapabilities()")}}
  - : …
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.clone()")}}
  - : …
- {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack.stop()")}}
  - : Stops playing the source associated to the track, both the source and the track are deassociated. The track state is set to `ended`.

## Especificações

{{Specifications}}

## Compatibilidade com navegadores

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [Using the MediaStream API](/pt-BR/docs/WebRTC/MediaStream_API)
