---
title: MouseEvent
slug: Web/API/MouseEvent
---

{{APIRef("DOM Events")}}

The **`MouseEvent`** interface represents events that occur due to the user interacting with a pointing device (such as a mouse). Common events using this interface include [`click`](/es/docs/Web/Reference/Events/click), [`dblclick`](/es/docs/Web/Reference/Events/dblclick), [`mouseup`](/es/docs/Web/Reference/Events/mouseup), [`mousedown`](/es/docs/Web/Reference/Events/mousedown).

`MouseEvent` derives from {{domxref("UIEvent")}}, which in turn derives from {{domxref("Event")}}. Though the {{domxref("MouseEvent.initMouseEvent()")}} method is kept for backward compatibility, creating of a `MouseEvent` object should be done using the {{domxref("MouseEvent.MouseEvent", "MouseEvent()")}} constructor.

Several more specific events derivate from `MouseEvent`: {{domxref("WheelEvent")}} and {{domxref("DragEvent")}}.

## Constructor

- {{domxref("MouseEvent.MouseEvent", "MouseEvent()")}}
  - : Creates a `MouseEvent` object.

## Properties

_This interface also inherits properties of its parents, {{domxref("UIEvent")}} and {{domxref("Event")}}._

- {{domxref("MouseEvent.altKey")}} {{readonlyinline}}

  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>alt</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.

- {{domxref("MouseEvent.button")}} {{readonlyinline}}
  - : The button number that was pressed when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.buttons")}} {{readonlyinline}}
  - : The buttons being pressed when the mouse event was fired
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientX")}} {{readonlyinline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer in local (DOM content) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.clientY")}} {{readonlyinline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer in local (DOM content) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.ctrlKey")}} {{readonlyinline}}

  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>control</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.

- {{domxref("MouseEvent.metaKey")}} {{readonlyinline}}

  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>meta</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.

- {{domxref("MouseEvent.movementX")}} {{readonlyinline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the last [`mousemove`](/es/docs/Web/Reference/Events/mousemove) event.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.movementY")}} {{readonlyinline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer relative to the position of the last [`mousemove`](/es/docs/Web/Reference/Events/mousemove) event.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.region")}} {{readonlyinline}}
  - : Returns the id of the hit region affected by the event. If no hit region is affected, `null` is returned.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.relatedTarget")}} {{readonlyinline}}
  - : The secondary target for the event, if there is one.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.screenX")}} {{readonlyinline}}
  - : The X coordinate of the mouse pointer in global (screen) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.screenY")}} {{readonlyinline}}
  - : The Y coordinate of the mouse pointer in global (screen) coordinates.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.shiftKey")}} {{readonlyinline}}

  - : Returns `true` if the <kbd>shift</kbd> key was down when the mouse event was fired.

- {{domxref("MouseEvent.which")}} {{non-standard_inline}} {{readonlyinline}}
  - : The button being pressed when the mouse event was fired.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.mozPressure")}} {{non-standard_inline()}} {{readonlyinline}}
  - : The amount of pressure applied to a touch or tablet device when generating the event; this value ranges between `0.0` (minimum pressure) and `1.0` (maximum pressure).
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.mozInputSource")}} {{non-standard_inline()}} {{readonlyinline}}

  - : The type of device that generated the event (one of the `MOZ_SOURCE_*` constants listed below). This lets you, for example, determine whether a mouse event was generated by an actual mouse or by a touch event (which might affect the degree of accuracy with which you interpret the coordinates associated with the event). The possible values are:

    | Constant name                    | Value | Desription                                                 |
    | -------------------------------- | ----- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
    | `MouseEvent.MOZ_SOURCE_UNKNOWN`  | 0     | The input device is unknown.                               |
    | `MouseEvent.MOZ_SOURCE_MOUSE`    | 1     | The event was generated by a mouse (or mouse-like device). |
    | `MouseEvent.MOZ_SOURCE_PEN`      | 2     | The event was generated by a pen on a tablet.              |
    | `MouseEvent.MOZ_SOURCE_ERASER`   | 3     | The event was generated by an eraser on a tablet.          |
    | `MouseEvent.MOZ_SOURCE_CURSOR`   | 4     | The event was generated by a cursor.                       |
    | `MouseEvent.MOZ_SOURCE_TOUCH`    | 5     | The event was generated on a touch interface.              |
    | `MouseEvent.MOZ_SOURCE_KEYBOARD` | 6     | The event was generated by a keyboard.                     |

## Methods

_This interface also inherits methods of its parents, {{domxref("UIEvent")}} and {{domxref("Event")}}._

- {{domxref("MouseEvent.getModifierState()")}}
  - : Returns the current state of the specified modifier key. See the {{domxref("KeyboardEvent.getModifierState")}}() for details.
- {{domxref("MouseEvent.initMouseEvent()")}} {{deprecated_inline}}
  - : Initializes the value of a `MouseEvent` created. If the event has already being dispatched, this method does nothing.

## Example

This example demonstrates simulating a click (that is programmatically generating a click event) on a checkbox using DOM methods.

```js
function simulateClick() {
  var evt = new MouseEvent("click", {
    bubbles: true,
    cancelable: true,
    view: window,
  });
  var cb = document.getElementById("checkbox"); //element to click on
  var canceled = !cb.dispatchEvent(evt);
  if(canceled) {
    // A handler called preventDefault
    alert("canceled");
  } else {
    // None of the handlers called preventDefault
    alert("not canceled");
  }
}
document.getElementById("button").addEventListener('click', simulateClick);
```

```html
<p><label><input type="checkbox" id="checkbox"> Checked</label>
<p><button id="button">Click me</button>
```

Click on the button to see how the sample works:

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Example', '', '', '') }}

## Especificaciones

{{Specifications}}

## Compatibilidad con navegadores

{{Compat}}

## See also

- Its direct parent, {{domxref("UIEvent")}}.
